- [Instructor] Our next principle declares Git
as the single source of truth for our system.
As simple as that sounds,
it's really important for GitOps.
Let's start with our blueprint analogy.
A blueprint represents the desired state of a house.
It's what the homeowner, the builder, and the workers agree
the house should look like when it's finished.
If the blueprints do not have a bathroom,
the house won't either.
If you want to change the house by adding another room,
the blueprints need to be updated so that everybody working
on the house understands what needs to be built.
All right, let's tie that to GitOps.
In GitOps we store everything in Git.
So inside of Git we'll find things
like the application code, tests, image definitions,
and our declared infrastructure configuration.
Now, I will highlight that GitOps is meant for operations,
so it really focuses on the infrastructure code.
But still, anything pertaining to the system is in Git.
It has all the blueprints related to the system.
We call this our desired state.
If something isn't in the desired state, AKA the blueprints,
it shouldn't be in the system.
This makes Git the only place that developers,
operations, security, and automations check when trying
to determine what should be running in the system.
If changes to the system are necessary,
a commit is the only way to update the blueprints in Git.
Having one place to store the description
of our system's desired state has many advantages.
At any point in time, anyone or anything can turn to Git
as the single source of truth for the system.
This includes automated agents
that observe the system's desired state
while watching for any changes.
Having Git as the single source of truth
provides us with auditability.
What changed, who changed it, and when the change happened
is stored in Git, because every change
to the system is described with a commit.
GitOps also increases a system's recoverability
because we can easily revert a failed change
or recover the entire system from the repository.
That about covers it.
The main concepts behind this principle are simple.
Put everything about your system in Git
and manage it from there.